---
layout: default
title: Version 0.5.9b (1.18.2)
parent: Finality Iteration 0.5
grand_parent: Finality Changelog
nav_order: 1
---
# Version 0.5.9.2b Changelog

In Development
{: .label .label-yellow }

- Added Tight integration for Tinker's Construct
- Changed Wither Storm related recipes to use Insanium Essence, not just corruption.

## Mod removals
- Removed FastSuite
- Removed FastWorkbench
- Removed FastFurnace
- Removed Rotten Creatures
  - Log spam and the config file does not even work. Explanation for this issue can be found here: https://github.com/teamfusion/rottencreatures/pull/24

## Mod updates
- Updated Jade to `Jade-1.18.2-forge-5.3.0.jar` from `Jade-1.18.2-forge-5.2.6.jar`


---

# Version 0.5.9.1b Changelog

Released
{: .label .label-green }

A bunch of mods will be removed, with some of them adding new biomes. You may have to regenerate your world...

Updated Forge mod loader from `Forge 40.2.4` to `Forge 40.2.8`

{: .warning}
DO NOT update Create or any of the Create related add-ons. Do not update Supplementaries, Quark and other related mods that may have had to add compatibility with Create 0.5.1. If you do decide to do so, the modpack is guaranteed to crash due to KubeJS Create not being compatible with Create 0.5.1 as it does not have support. 

## Mod removals
- Removed Default Options
  - KubeJS supports default options implementation, apparently.
- Removed CobbleForDays
- Removed Galosphere
  - Pre-existing worlds will have biomes related to this mod, so you may have to re-generate your world.
- Removed Darker Depths
  - Pre-existing worlds will have biomes related to this mod, so you may have to re-generate your world.
- Removed Create: Molten Vents 
  - No longer necessary, utilize Mystical Agriculture and Create to your fullest instead.
- Removed Create: Molten Geodes
  - No longer necessary, utilize Mystical Agriculture and Create to your fullest instead.

## Mod additions
- Added Catalogue by MrCrayFish
- Added Almost Unified to de-duplicate materials.
- Re-added Cloud Storage 
  - Your pre-existing worlds will not have the structures generated by this mod, so you may have to regenerate your world.
- Re-added Draconic Revolution
- Re-added Mekanism
  - Requires Create to Thermal Series integration for power generation.
- Re-added Mahou Tsukai

## Library mod updates
- Updated Bookshelf from `Bookshelf-Forge-1.18.2-13.2.53.jar` to `Bookshelf-Forge-1.18.2-13.3.56.jar`
- Updated Item Filters from `item-filters-forge-1802.2.8-build.47.jar` to `item-filters-forge-1802.2.8-build.50.jar`
- Updated Sophisticated Core from `sophisticatedcore-1.18.2-0.5.53.260.jar` to `sophisticatedcore-1.18.2-0.5.56.273.jar`
- Updated SuperMartijn642's Core Lib from `supermartijn642corelib-1.1.9-forge-mc1.18.jar` to `supermartijn642corelib-1.1.9a-forge-mc1.18.jar`

## Mod udpates
- Updated FTB Backups from `ftbbackups2-forge-1.18.2-1.0.18.jar` to  `ftbbackups2-forge-1.18.2-1.0.19.jar`
- Updated FTB Essentials from `ftb-essentials-1802.2.1-build.66.jar` to `ftb-essentials-1802.2.2-build.83.jar`
- Updated Controlling from `Controlling-forge-1.18.2-9.0+22.jar` to `Controlling-forge-1.18.2-9.0+23.jar`
- Updated Jade Addons (Forge) from `JadeAddons-1.18.2-forge-2.4.1.jar` to `JadeAddons-1.18.2-forge-2.5.0.jar`
- Updated Unusual End from `UnusualEnd1.18.2_V1.4.2.jar` to `UnusualEnd1.18.2_V1.4.3.jar`
- Updated Sophisticated Backpacks from `sophisticatedbackpacks-1.18.2-3.18.46.821.jar` to `sophisticatedbackpacks-1.18.2-3.18.48.835.jar`
- Updated Sophisticated Storage from `sophisticatedstorage-1.18.2-0.7.8.367.jar` to `sophisticatedstorage-1.18.2-0.8.5.401.jar`
- Updated Xaero's Minimap `Xaeros_Minimap_23.4.3_Forge_1.18.2.jar` to `Xaeros_Minimap_23.4.4_Forge_1.18.2.jar`
- Updated Xaero's World Map  `XaerosWorldMap_1.30.2_Forge_1.18.2.jar` to `XaerosWorldMap_1.30.3_Forge_1.18.2.jar`

# Finality Core related
All I will say is the following:
- Added custom items...
- Added singularity cores...
- Added incomplete singularity cores...
- Added custom recipes for Mystical Agriculture related things...
- Finally applied changes to Thermal Series related things.
Good luck.

---

# Version 0.5.9b Changelog

Stable
{: .label .label-green }

A small minor update, again...

{: .warning}
FTB Chunks is being replaced by xaero96's suite of mods due to its inability to share waypoints or make waypoints visible to the players in the same FTB Teams. This should have been a *basic* functionality from the mod. Please back up all your waypoints and note their exact X, Y and Z coordinates. It is not my fault if you update to this version without reading the changelog. This was made obvious while doing multiplayer playthroughs. JourneyMap will never be added due to being resource intensive.

{: .important}
As you know, Create 0.5.1 has been released on 5.22.2023. I will have to rework the Create FTB Quests tree slightly to accomodate for the newest items. Also to plan ahead of time... remove all soul sand blocks from your water wheels as that will now be useless. Make room for the large water wheels which rotate at 4 RPM max and provide 512 Su. The regular water wheels provide 128 Su max. Please keep that in mind. The developers have also implemented a fix so that Deployers will no longer be plagued with the issues that come with chunk claiming. Please see the changelog here: https://github.com/Creators-of-Create/Create/wiki/0.5.1

## FTB Quests
* Corrected `The Andesite Age` description text to use Zinc Ore instead of Nickel Ore. More corrections on the way that I may not have noticed because I was half asleep while making the quest tree for Create.
* Fixed the `Alloyed` chapter showing up prematurely before introductory checkmark is checked by the user.

## Tome of Finality (patchouli guidebook)
* Changed entries to accomodate for the removal of FTB Chunks. It will not be making a return.

## Core changes
* Disabled all `Ice and Fire` copper nugget, copper ingot and copper block recipes to prevent accidental conversion. Vanilla copper should be safe now. 
* Added recipes to convert `Ice and Fire` copper nugget, ingot and block to Create's copper nugget and Minecraft copper ingot and block.
* Added KubeJS magic to replace `Ice and Fire` copper and silver ore on world generation.

### Config changes
* Waystones will now reduce XP cost every 250 blocks instead of every 1000 blocks.
* Disabled the Teleport button on Xaero's Minimap.
* ~~"Disabled" `Ice and Fire` Copper and Silver Ore generation. I am very sorry that I did not disable it as I was not aware of this being an option in the config for the mod.~~
  * See above.

### Added mods
* [Xaero's Minimap](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/xaeros-minimap)
* [Xaero's World Map](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/xaeros-world-map)
* [Open Parties and Claims by xaero96](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/open-parties-and-claims)
* [Lightspeed - Launch optimizations by ccr4ft3r](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/lightspeedmod)
  * Thank you to squoshi
* [Domestication Innovation](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/domestication-innovation)

### Removed mods
* FTB Chunks
* Ding